# Week 4 Notes

## Navigation

- [Monday Notes](#monday)

- [Wednesday Notes](#wednesday)

- [Friday Notes](#friday)



<hr>

<a id="monday" />

## I. Monday

### I. Review HW-1
- They came out really well! Let's take a quick look at the submissions
- "Gotchas" to watch for (in all out our PE's and HW's):
  -  ***Always*** hand ***something*** in before the dropbox closes, even if it doesn't work. Add comments to the dropbox submission to let me know what you tried or what happened. And let me know (at least 24-hours in advance) if you think you'll need an extension.
  - [Code Commenting Examples](../docs/code-commenting-examples.md) - don't lose points here!
  - Class files - for example `class Car{...}` are always in a separate file of the same name (ex. **Car.js**)
  - Keep code like `keyPressed()`, `mouseClicked()` OUT of your class files:
    - instead, put all "event" handling code in **sketch.js**, and call methods of the class from the "outside". For example:

**sketch.js**
```js
let car;

function setup(){
  car = new Car();
}

function draw(){
  if(car.state === "moving"){
    car.move();
  }
}

function keyPressed(){
  if(key === "s" || key === "S"){
    if(car.state === "moving"){
      car.stop();
    }else{
      car.go();
    }
  }
}
```

### I-B. Presentation & Demo - Class Inheritance
- See Inheritance PDF in myCourses
- **Object Oriented Programming (OOP)**
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming
  - a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects", which can contain data and code: data in the form of fields (often known as attributes or properties), and code, in the form of procedures (often known as methods)
  - classes are considered templates (aka "blue prints") for objects (aka "instances")
 - Some OOP (Object Oriented Programming) concepts:
   - **Inheritance** - lets programmers create new classes that share some of the properties of existing classes. Using Inheritance lets us build on previous work without reinventing the wheel.
   - **Encapsulation** - keeping properties within a class private, then providing access to those properties via public methods. Encapsulation is a protective barrier that keeps the data and code safe within the class itself. We can then reuse objects without allowing open access to the data system-wide. This means that we can reuses property names in different classes. For example this means that the value of a `.name` property in a Car instance is completely isolated from `.name` properties in other car instances, and also in (for example) `Dog` instances
   - **Polymorphism** - Allows programmers to use the same word to mean different things in different contexts
     - One form of polymorphism is **method overriding**, which is "when a subclass or child class to provide a specific implementation of a method that is already provided by one of its superclasses or parent classes."
       - for example, the `move()` method in a `Puppy` class *overrides* (i.e. "replaces") the `move()` method in the parent `Pet` class
- **Is OOP the "best" and "only" way to write programs?** (For example, in Java everything "extends" the `Object` class and thus you are forced to put all of your code in `class` files)
  - OOP is really good at organizing your code when solving certain kinds of problems, but very few developers belive it is the only way to code
  - JavaScript is actually a *multi-paradigm* language and supports multiple styles of programming - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/About_JavaScript

### I-D. PE-05 - Inheritance
- See dropbox in myCourses - Due Tuesday night


<hr>

<a id="wednesday" />

## II. Wednesday

### II-A. Review PE05 - Inheritance (Candies logged to the console)
- Topics:
  - Inheritance:
    - Base class (aka "super class") was `Candy`
    - Sub classes (aka "child class", "derived class") were `Regular`, `Sprinkled`, `Striped` and `Wrapped`
    - `Regular` (for example)
      - *inherited* the `display()` method from `Candy` (via `class Regular extends Candy{...`
      - the `Candy` `constructor()` initialized the `.color` property for `Regular` when `Regular` called the Candy constructor with `super(candyColor)` 
  - Polymorphism (using `Regular` as an example)
    - `Regular` has its own *properties* that go beyond Candy properties - for example `coolness`
    - `Regular` also has its own *methods* that go beyond Candy properties - for example `displayMore()`
- Issues:
  - make sure that your classes are in their own separate files (NOT in **sketch.js**), and are named properly ex. `class Candy` goes in **Candy.js**
  - [Code Commenting Examples](../docs/code-commenting-examples.md) - don't lose points here!


### II-A. PE06 - Inheritance Arrays (Draw candies to screen)
- Topics
  - Putting `Candy subclasses` into arrays - don't forget about `array.push()`
  - Nested `for` loops (loops inside of other loops)
  - 

<hr>

<a id="friday" />

## III. Friday




<hr><hr>

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| [**Week 3 notes.md**](03.md)     |  [**IGME-102 Schedule**](../schedule.md) | **Week 05 notes.md**
